README.md, before:

# pytest-services

Clients and [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/index.html)
tests for checking that third party services the @foxsec team uses are
configured correctly.

We trust third party services to return their status correctly, but
want to answer questions whether they are configured properly such as:

* Are our AWS DB snapshots publicly accessible?
* Is there a dangling DNS entry in Route53?
* Will someone get paged when an alert goes off?

## Usage

### Requirements

* [GNU Make 3.81](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
* [Python 3.6.2](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

Note: other versions may work too these are the versions @g-k used for development

### Installing

From the project root run:

```console
make install
```

This will:

* create a Python [virtualenv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) to isolate it from other Python packages
* install Python requirements in the virtualenv

### Running

Activate the venv in the project root:

```console
source venv/bin/activate
```

To fetch RDS resources from the cache or AWS API and check that
backups are enabled for DB instances for [the configured aws
profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-config-files.html)
named `default` in the `us-west-2` region we can run:

```console
pytest --ignore aws/s3 --ignore aws/ec2 -k test_rds_db_instance_backup_enabled -s --aws-profiles default --aws-regions us-west-2 --aws-debug-calls
```

The options include pytest options:

* [`--ignore`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/example/pythoncollection.html#ignore-paths-during-test-collection) to skip fetching resources for non-RDS resources
* [`-k`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/example/markers.html#using-k-expr-to-select-tests-based-on-their-name) for selecting tests matching the substring `test_rds_db_instance_backup_enabled` for the one test we want to run
* [`-m`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/example/markers.html#marking-test-functions-and-selecting-them-for-a-run) not used but the marker filter can be useful for selecting all tests for specific services (e.g. `-m rds`)
* [`-s`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/capture.html) to disable capturing stdout so we can see the progress fetching AWS resources

and options pytest-services adds:

* `--aws-debug-calls` for printing (with `-s`) API calls we make
* `--aws-profiles` for selecting one or more AWS profiles to fetch resources for or the AWS default profile / `AWS_PROFILE` environment variable
* `--aws-regions` for selecting one or more AWS regions to fetch resources from or the default of all regions
* `--aws-require-tag` adds Tag names to check on all EC2 instances for the `aws.ec2.test_ec2_instance_has_required_tags` test
* `--offline` a flag to tell HTTP clients to not make requests and return empty params
* [`--severity-config`](#test-severity) path to a config file for marking different tests with different severities
* [`--exemptions-config`](#test-exemptions) path to a config file for marking test name and resource IDs as expected failures

and produces output like the following showing a DB instance with backups disabled:

```console
=========================================================== test session starts ===========================================================
platform darwin -- Python 3.6.2, pytest-3.3.2, py-1.5.2, pluggy-0.6.0
metadata: {'Python': '3.6.2', 'Platform': 'Darwin-15.6.0-x86_64-i386-64bit', 'Packages': {'pytest': '3.3.2', 'py': '1.5.2', 'pluggy': '0.6.
0'}, 'Plugins': {'metadata': '1.5.1', 'json': '0.4.0', 'html': '1.16.1'}}
rootdir: /Users/gguthe/mozilla-services/pytest-services, inifile:
plugins: metadata-1.5.1, json-0.4.0, html-1.16.1
collecting 0 items                                                                                                                        c
alling AWSAPICall(profile='default', region='us-west-2', service='rds', method='describe_db_instances', args=[], kwargs={})
collecting 4 items
...
aws/rds/test_rds_db_instance_backup_enabled.py ...F                                                                                 [100%]

================================================================ FAILURES =================================================================
_______________________________________ test_rds_db_instance_backup_enabled[test-db] ________________________________________

rds_db_instance = {'AllocatedStorage': 50, 'AutoMinorVersionUpgrade': True, 'AvailabilityZone': 'us-west-2c', 'BackupRetentionPeriod': 0, .
..}

    @pytest.mark.rds
    @pytest.mark.parametrize('rds_db_instance',
                             rds_db_instances(),
                             ids=lambda db_instance: db_instance['DBInstanceIdentifier'])
    def test_rds_db_instance_backup_enabled(rds_db_instance):
>       assert rds_db_instance['BackupRetentionPeriod'] > 0, \
            'Backups disabled for {}'.format(rds_db_instance['DBInstanceIdentifier'])
E       AssertionError: Backups disabled for test-db
E       assert 0 > 0

aws/rds/test_rds_db_instance_backup_enabled.py:12: AssertionError
=========================================================== 72 tests deselected ===========================================================
============================================ 1 failed, 3 passed, 72 deselected in 3.12 seconds ============================================
```

#### IAM Policy for pytest-services

The below policy will allow you to run all AWS tests in pytest-services against all resources in your account.

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "PytestServicesReadOnly",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:DescribeInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeSecurityGroups",
        "ec2:DescribeVolumes",
        "iam:GetLoginProfile",
        "iam:ListAttachedGroupPolicies",
        "iam:ListAttachedUserPolicies",
        "iam:ListGroupPolicies",
        "iam:ListGroupsForUser",
        "iam:ListMFADevices",
        "iam:ListUserPolicies",
        "iam:ListUsers",
        "rds:DescribeDbInstances",
        "rds:DescribeDbSnapshotAttributes",
        "rds:DescribeDbSnapshots",
        "rds:DescribeDbSecurityGroups",
        "rds:ListTagsForResource",
        "redshift:DescribeClusterSecurityGroups",
        "s3:GetBucketAcl",
        "s3:GetBucketCORS",
        "s3:GetBucketLogging",
        "s3:GetBucketPolicy",
        "s3:GetBucketVersioning",
        "s3:GetBucketWebsite",
        "s3:ListAllMyBuckets",
        "s3:ListBucket"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Caching

The AWS client will use AWS API JSON responses when available and save them using AWS profile, region, service name, service method, [botocore](http://botocore.readthedocs.io/) args and kwargs in the cache key to filenames with the format `.cache/v/pytest_aws:<aws profile>:<aws region>:<aws service>:<service method>:<args>:<kwargs>.json` e.g.

```
head .cache/v/pytest_aws:cloudservices-aws-stage:us-west-2:rds:describe_db_instances::.json
{
    "DBInstances": [
        {
            "AllocatedStorage": 5,
            "AutoMinorVersionUpgrade": true,
            "AvailabilityZone": "us-west-2c",
            "BackupRetentionPeriod": 1,
            "CACertificateIdentifier": "rds-ca-2015",
            "CopyTagsToSnapshot": false,
            "DBInstanceArn": "arn:aws:rds:us-west-2:123456678901:db:test-db",
```

These files can be removed individually or all at once with [the pytest --cache-clear](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/cache.html#usage) option.

### Test Severity

pytest-services adds the command line arg `--severity-config` for
adding a severity marker to tests. A severity can be `INFO`, `WARN`,
or `ERROR`.

These do not modify pytest results (pass, fail, xfail, skip, etc.).

The config file looks like (available in `./severity.conf.example`):

```
# pytest-sevices example severity conf
test_ec2_instance_has_required_tags	INFO
*  WARN
```

And results in a severity and severity marker being included in the
json metadata:

```console
pytest --ignore aws/s3 --ignore aws/rds --ignore aws/iam -s --aws-profiles stage --aws-regions us-east-1 --aws-require-tags Name Type App Stack -k test_ec2_instance_has_required_tags --severity-config severity.conf --json=report.json
...
```

```json
python -m json.tool report.json
{
    "report": {
        "environment": {
            "Python": "3.6.2",
            "Platform": "Darwin-15.6.0-x86_64-i386-64bit"
        },
        "tests": [
            {
...
                "metadata": [
                    {
...
                    "markers": {
...
                            "severity": {
                                "name": "severity",
                                "args": [
                                    "INFO"
                                ],
                                "kwargs": {}
                            }
                        },
...
                        "severity": "INFO",
                        "unparametrized_name": "test_ec2_instance_has_required_tags"
                    }
...
```

### Test Exemptions

pytest-services adds the command line arg `--exemptions-config` for
marking test and test resource IDs as expected failures.

The conf file format consists of whitespace delimited columns like the
severity config, but requires additional columns for test ID (usually
an AWS resource ID), exception expiration day (as YYYY-MM-DD), and
exception reason.

The config file looks like (available in `./exemptions.conf.example`):

```
# pytest-sevices example exemptions conf
# columns:
# unparametrized test name; test_param_id; expiration day; expiration comment
test_ec2_instance_has_required_tags i-0123456789f014c162 2019-01-01 ec2 instance has no owner
```

Pytest-services will mark matching test names and test IDs with
[`xfail(reason='<conf reason>', strict=True, expiration='<conf
expiration>')`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/skipping.html) and
`pytest.mark.services_exception(expiration='<conf expiration>')`.

When a json report is generated, the exemptions will show up in the
json metadata as serialized markers:

```json
python -m json.tool report.json | grep -C 20 xfail
...
                        "markers": {
                            "ec2": {
                                "name": "ec2",
                                "args": [],
                                "kwargs": {}
                            },
                            "parametrize": {
                                "name": "parametrize",
                                "args": [
                                    "...skipped..."
                                ],
                                "kwargs": [
                                    "...skipped..."
                                ]
                            },
                            "xfail": {
                                "name": "xfail",
                                "args": [],
                                "kwargs": {
                                    "reason": "ec2 instance has no owner",
                                    "strict": true,
                                    "expiration": "2019-01-01"
                                }
                            }
                        },
...
```

## Development

### Goals

1. replace one-off scripts for each check
1. share checks with other organizations
1. consolidate bugs in one place (i.e. one thing to update)
1. in pytest use a known existing framework for writing checks
1. be vendor agnostic e.g. support checks across cloud providers or in hybrid environments or competing services
1. cache and share responses to reduce third party API usage (i.e. lots of tests check AWS security groups so fetch them once)
1. provide a way to run a single test or subset of tests

### Non-Goals

1. Invent a new DSL for writing expectations (use pytest conventions)
1. Verify how third party services or their client libraries work
   (e.g. don't answer "Does GET / on the CRUD1 API return 400 when
   query param `q` is `$bad_value`?")

### Design

Currently this is a monolithic pytest package, but should eventually
[be extracted into a pytest plugin](#3) and with [separate dependent
pytest plugins for each service](#4).

API responses should fit on disk and in memory (i.e. don't use this
for log processing or checking binaries for malware), and be safe to
cache for minutes, hours, or days (i.e. probably don't use this for
monitoring a streaming API) (NB: [bug for specifying data
freshness](#5)).

Additionally we want:

* data fetching functions in a `resources.py`
* data checking and test helpers in a `helpers.py`
* prefix test files with `test_`
* tests to have pytest markers for any services they depend on for data
* HTTP clients should be read only and use read only credentials
* running a test should not modify services

#### File Layout

```console
pytest-services
...
├── <third party service A>
│   ├── client.py
│   ├── <subservice A (optional)>
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── helpers.py
│   │   ├── resources.py
│   │   ├── ...
│   │   └── test_ec2_security_group_all_ports.py
│   ├── <subservice b (optional)>
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── resources.py
│   │   ├── ...
│   │   └─ test_s3_bucket_web_hosting_disabled.py
└── <third party service B>
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── helpers.py
    ├── resources.py
    └── test_user_has_escalation_policy.py
```

### Adding an example test

Let's write a test to check that http://httpbin.org/ip returns an AWS IP:

1. create a file `httpbin/test_httpbin_ip.py` with the contents:

```python
import itertools
import ipaddress
import pytest
import json
import urllib.request


def get_httpbin_ips():
    # IPs we always want to test
    ips = [
        '127.0.0.1',
        '13.58.0.0',
    ]

    req = urllib.request.Request('http://httpbin.org/ip')

    with urllib.request.urlopen(req) as response:
        body = response.read().decode('utf-8')
        ips.append(json.loads(body).get('origin', None))

    return ips


def get_aws_ips():
    req = urllib.request.Request('https://ip-ranges.amazonaws.com/ip-ranges.json')

    with urllib.request.urlopen(req) as response:
        body = response.read().decode('utf-8')
        return json.loads(body)['prefixes']


@pytest.mark.httpbin
@pytest.mark.aws_ip_ranges
@pytest.mark.parametrize(
    ['ip', 'aws_ip_ranges'],
    zip(get_httpbin_ips(), itertools.repeat(get_aws_ips())))
def test_httpbin_ip_in_aws(ip, aws_ip_ranges):
    for aws_ip_range in aws_ip_ranges:
        assert ipaddress.IPv4Address(ip) not in ipaddress.ip_network(aws_ip_range['ip_prefix']), \
          "{0} is in AWS range {1[ip_prefix]} region {1[region]} service {1[service]}".format(ip, aws_ip_range)
```

Notes:

* we add two data fetching functions that return lists that we can zip into tuples for [the pytest parametrize decorator](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/parametrize.html#pytest-mark-parametrize-parametrizing-test-functions)
* we add markers for the services we're fetching data from


1. Running it we see that one of the IPs is an AWS IP:

```console
pytest --ignore aws/
platform darwin -- Python 3.6.2, pytest-3.3.2, py-1.5.2, pluggy-0.6.0
metadata: {'Python': '3.6.2', 'Platform': 'Darwin-15.6.0-x86_64-i386-64bit', 'Packages': {'pytest': '3.3.2', 'py': '1.5.2', 'pluggy': '0.6.0'}, 'Plugins': {'metadata': '1.5.1', 'json': '0.4.0', 'html': '1.16.1'}}
rootdir: /Users/gguthe/mozilla-services/pytest-services, inifile:
plugins: metadata-1.5.1, json-0.4.0, html-1.16.1
collected 3 items

httpbin/test_httpbin_ip_in_aws.py .F.                                                                                               [100%]

================================================================ FAILURES =================================================================
____________________________________________ test_httpbin_ip_in_aws[13.58.0.0-aws_ip_ranges1] _____________________________________________

ip = '13.58.0.0'
aws_ip_ranges = [{'ip_prefix': '13.32.0.0/15', 'region': 'GLOBAL', 'service': 'AMAZON'}, {'ip_prefix': '13.35.0.0/16', 'region': 'GLOB...on': 'us-west-1', 'service': 'AMAZON'}, {'ip_prefix': '13.57.0.0/16', 'region': 'us-west-1', 'service': 'AMAZON'}, ...]

    @pytest.mark.httpbin
    @pytest.mark.aws_ip_ranges
    @pytest.mark.parametrize(
        ['ip', 'aws_ip_ranges'],
        zip(get_httpbin_ips(), itertools.repeat(get_aws_ips())),
        # ids=lambda ip: ip
        )
    def test_httpbin_ip_in_aws(ip, aws_ip_ranges):
        for aws_ip_range in aws_ip_ranges:
>           assert ipaddress.IPv4Address(ip) not in ipaddress.ip_network(aws_ip_range['ip_prefix']), \
              "{0} is in AWS range {1[ip_prefix]} region {1[region]} service {1[service]}".format(ip, aws_ip_range)
E           AssertionError: 13.58.0.0 is in AWS range 13.58.0.0/15 region us-east-2 service AMAZON
E           assert IPv4Address('13.58.0.0') not in IPv4Network('13.58.0.0/15')
E            +  where IPv4Address('13.58.0.0') = <class 'ipaddress.IPv4Address'>('13.58.0.0')
E            +    where <class 'ipaddress.IPv4Address'> = ipaddress.IPv4Address
E            +  and   IPv4Network('13.58.0.0/15') = <function ip_network at 0x107cf66a8>('13.58.0.0/15')
E            +    where <function ip_network at 0x107cf66a8> = ipaddress.ip_network

httpbin/test_httpbin_ip_in_aws.py:43: AssertionError
=================================================== 1 failed, 2 passed in 15.69 seconds ===================================================
```

Note: marking tests as expected failures with `@pytest.mark.xfail` can hide data fetching errors

To improve this we could:

1. Add parametrize ids so it's clearer which parametrize caused test failures
1. Add directions about why it's an issue and how to fix it or what the associated risks are

As we add more tests we can:

1. Move the JSON fetching functions to `<service name>/resources.py` files and import them into the test
1. Move the fetching logic to a shared library `<service name>/client.py` and save to the pytest cache

Commit message:

Substring matching for exemptions test id's
Adds the ability to prefix a test id with an asterisk
to enable substring matching.

refs #67

README.md, after:

# pytest-services

Clients and [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/index.html)
tests for checking that third party services the @foxsec team uses are
configured correctly.

We trust third party services to return their status correctly, but
want to answer questions whether they are configured properly such as:

* Are our AWS DB snapshots publicly accessible?
* Is there a dangling DNS entry in Route53?
* Will someone get paged when an alert goes off?

## Usage

### Requirements

* [GNU Make 3.81](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/)
* [Python 3.6.2](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

Note: other versions may work too these are the versions @g-k used for development

### Installing

From the project root run:

```console
make install
```

This will:

* create a Python [virtualenv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) to isolate it from other Python packages
* install Python requirements in the virtualenv

### Running

Activate the venv in the project root:

```console
source venv/bin/activate
```

To fetch RDS resources from the cache or AWS API and check that
backups are enabled for DB instances for [the configured aws
profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-config-files.html)
named `default` in the `us-west-2` region we can run:

```console
pytest --ignore aws/s3 --ignore aws/ec2 -k test_rds_db_instance_backup_enabled -s --aws-profiles default --aws-regions us-west-2 --aws-debug-calls
```

The options include pytest options:

* [`--ignore`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/example/pythoncollection.html#ignore-paths-during-test-collection) to skip fetching resources for non-RDS resources
* [`-k`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/example/markers.html#using-k-expr-to-select-tests-based-on-their-name) for selecting tests matching the substring `test_rds_db_instance_backup_enabled` for the one test we want to run
* [`-m`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/example/markers.html#marking-test-functions-and-selecting-them-for-a-run) not used but the marker filter can be useful for selecting all tests for specific services (e.g. `-m rds`)
* [`-s`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/capture.html) to disable capturing stdout so we can see the progress fetching AWS resources

and options pytest-services adds:

* `--aws-debug-calls` for printing (with `-s`) API calls we make
* `--aws-profiles` for selecting one or more AWS profiles to fetch resources for or the AWS default profile / `AWS_PROFILE` environment variable
* `--aws-regions` for selecting one or more AWS regions to fetch resources from or the default of all regions
* `--aws-require-tag` adds Tag names to check on all EC2 instances for the `aws.ec2.test_ec2_instance_has_required_tags` test
* `--offline` a flag to tell HTTP clients to not make requests and return empty params
* [`--severity-config`](#test-severity) path to a config file for marking different tests with different severities
* [`--exemptions-config`](#test-exemptions) path to a config file for marking test name and resource IDs as expected failures

and produces output like the following showing a DB instance with backups disabled:

```console
=========================================================== test session starts ===========================================================
platform darwin -- Python 3.6.2, pytest-3.3.2, py-1.5.2, pluggy-0.6.0
metadata: {'Python': '3.6.2', 'Platform': 'Darwin-15.6.0-x86_64-i386-64bit', 'Packages': {'pytest': '3.3.2', 'py': '1.5.2', 'pluggy': '0.6.
0'}, 'Plugins': {'metadata': '1.5.1', 'json': '0.4.0', 'html': '1.16.1'}}
rootdir: /Users/gguthe/mozilla-services/pytest-services, inifile:
plugins: metadata-1.5.1, json-0.4.0, html-1.16.1
collecting 0 items                                                                                                                        c
alling AWSAPICall(profile='default', region='us-west-2', service='rds', method='describe_db_instances', args=[], kwargs={})
collecting 4 items
...
aws/rds/test_rds_db_instance_backup_enabled.py ...F                                                                                 [100%]

================================================================ FAILURES =================================================================
_______________________________________ test_rds_db_instance_backup_enabled[test-db] ________________________________________

rds_db_instance = {'AllocatedStorage': 50, 'AutoMinorVersionUpgrade': True, 'AvailabilityZone': 'us-west-2c', 'BackupRetentionPeriod': 0, .
..}

    @pytest.mark.rds
    @pytest.mark.parametrize('rds_db_instance',
                             rds_db_instances(),
                             ids=lambda db_instance: db_instance['DBInstanceIdentifier'])
    def test_rds_db_instance_backup_enabled(rds_db_instance):
>       assert rds_db_instance['BackupRetentionPeriod'] > 0, \
            'Backups disabled for {}'.format(rds_db_instance['DBInstanceIdentifier'])
E       AssertionError: Backups disabled for test-db
E       assert 0 > 0

aws/rds/test_rds_db_instance_backup_enabled.py:12: AssertionError
=========================================================== 72 tests deselected ===========================================================
============================================ 1 failed, 3 passed, 72 deselected in 3.12 seconds ============================================
```

#### IAM Policy for pytest-services

The below policy will allow you to run all AWS tests in pytest-services against all resources in your account.

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "PytestServicesReadOnly",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:DescribeInstances",
        "ec2:DescribeSecurityGroups",
        "ec2:DescribeVolumes",
        "iam:GetLoginProfile",
        "iam:ListAttachedGroupPolicies",
        "iam:ListAttachedUserPolicies",
        "iam:ListGroupPolicies",
        "iam:ListGroupsForUser",
        "iam:ListMFADevices",
        "iam:ListUserPolicies",
        "iam:ListUsers",
        "rds:DescribeDbInstances",
        "rds:DescribeDbSnapshotAttributes",
        "rds:DescribeDbSnapshots",
        "rds:DescribeDbSecurityGroups",
        "rds:ListTagsForResource",
        "redshift:DescribeClusterSecurityGroups",
        "s3:GetBucketAcl",
        "s3:GetBucketCORS",
        "s3:GetBucketLogging",
        "s3:GetBucketPolicy",
        "s3:GetBucketVersioning",
        "s3:GetBucketWebsite",
        "s3:ListAllMyBuckets",
        "s3:ListBucket"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Caching

The AWS client will use AWS API JSON responses when available and save them using AWS profile, region, service name, service method, [botocore](http://botocore.readthedocs.io/) args and kwargs in the cache key to filenames with the format `.cache/v/pytest_aws:<aws profile>:<aws region>:<aws service>:<service method>:<args>:<kwargs>.json` e.g.

```
head .cache/v/pytest_aws:cloudservices-aws-stage:us-west-2:rds:describe_db_instances::.json
{
    "DBInstances": [
        {
            "AllocatedStorage": 5,
            "AutoMinorVersionUpgrade": true,
            "AvailabilityZone": "us-west-2c",
            "BackupRetentionPeriod": 1,
            "CACertificateIdentifier": "rds-ca-2015",
            "CopyTagsToSnapshot": false,
            "DBInstanceArn": "arn:aws:rds:us-west-2:123456678901:db:test-db",
```

These files can be removed individually or all at once with [the pytest --cache-clear](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/cache.html#usage) option.

### Test Severity

pytest-services adds the command line arg `--severity-config` for
adding a severity marker to tests. A severity can be `INFO`, `WARN`,
or `ERROR`.

These do not modify pytest results (pass, fail, xfail, skip, etc.).

The config file looks like (available in `./severity.conf.example`):

```
# pytest-sevices example severity conf
test_ec2_instance_has_required_tags	INFO
*  WARN
```

And results in a severity and severity marker being included in the
json metadata:

```console
pytest --ignore aws/s3 --ignore aws/rds --ignore aws/iam -s --aws-profiles stage --aws-regions us-east-1 --aws-require-tags Name Type App Stack -k test_ec2_instance_has_required_tags --severity-config severity.conf --json=report.json
...
```

```json
python -m json.tool report.json
{
    "report": {
        "environment": {
            "Python": "3.6.2",
            "Platform": "Darwin-15.6.0-x86_64-i386-64bit"
        },
        "tests": [
            {
...
                "metadata": [
                    {
...
                    "markers": {
...
                            "severity": {
                                "name": "severity",
                                "args": [
                                    "INFO"
                                ],
                                "kwargs": {}
                            }
                        },
...
                        "severity": "INFO",
                        "unparametrized_name": "test_ec2_instance_has_required_tags"
                    }
...
```

### Test Exemptions

pytest-services adds the command line arg `--exemptions-config` for
marking test and test resource IDs as expected failures.

The conf file format consists of whitespace delimited columns like the
severity config, but requires additional columns for test ID (usually
an AWS resource ID), exception expiration day (as YYYY-MM-DD), and
exception reason.

You can prefix the test ID with a `*` to enable substring matching.

The config file looks like (available in `./exemptions.conf.example`):

```
# pytest-sevices example exemptions conf
# columns:
# unparametrized test name; test_param_id; expiration day; expiration comment
test_ec2_instance_has_required_tags i-0123456789f014c162 2019-01-01 ec2 instance has no owner

# uses substring matching
test_ec2_security_group_opens_specific_ports_to_all *HoneyPot 2020-01-01 purposefully insecure security group
```

Pytest-services will mark matching test names and test IDs with
[`xfail(reason='<conf reason>', strict=True, expiration='<conf
expiration>')`](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/skipping.html) and
`pytest.mark.services_exception(expiration='<conf expiration>')`.

When a json report is generated, the exemptions will show up in the
json metadata as serialized markers:

```json
python -m json.tool report.json | grep -C 20 xfail
...
                        "markers": {
                            "ec2": {
                                "name": "ec2",
                                "args": [],
                                "kwargs": {}
                            },
                            "parametrize": {
                                "name": "parametrize",
                                "args": [
                                    "...skipped..."
                                ],
                                "kwargs": [
                                    "...skipped..."
                                ]
                            },
                            "xfail": {
                                "name": "xfail",
                                "args": [],
                                "kwargs": {
                                    "reason": "ec2 instance has no owner",
                                    "strict": true,
                                    "expiration": "2019-01-01"
                                }
                            }
                        },
...
```

## Development

### Goals

1. replace one-off scripts for each check
1. share checks with other organizations
1. consolidate bugs in one place (i.e. one thing to update)
1. in pytest use a known existing framework for writing checks
1. be vendor agnostic e.g. support checks across cloud providers or in hybrid environments or competing services
1. cache and share responses to reduce third party API usage (i.e. lots of tests check AWS security groups so fetch them once)
1. provide a way to run a single test or subset of tests

### Non-Goals

1. Invent a new DSL for writing expectations (use pytest conventions)
1. Verify how third party services or their client libraries work
   (e.g. don't answer "Does GET / on the CRUD1 API return 400 when
   query param `q` is `$bad_value`?")

### Design

Currently this is a monolithic pytest package, but should eventually
[be extracted into a pytest plugin](#3) and with [separate dependent
pytest plugins for each service](#4).

API responses should fit on disk and in memory (i.e. don't use this
for log processing or checking binaries for malware), and be safe to
cache for minutes, hours, or days (i.e. probably don't use this for
monitoring a streaming API) (NB: [bug for specifying data
freshness](#5)).

Additionally we want:

* data fetching functions in a `resources.py`
* data checking and test helpers in a `helpers.py`
* prefix test files with `test_`
* tests to have pytest markers for any services they depend on for data
* HTTP clients should be read only and use read only credentials
* running a test should not modify services

#### File Layout

```console
pytest-services
...
├── <third party service A>
│   ├── client.py
│   ├── <subservice A (optional)>
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── helpers.py
│   │   ├── resources.py
│   │   ├── ...
│   │   └── test_ec2_security_group_all_ports.py
│   ├── <subservice b (optional)>
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   ├── resources.py
│   │   ├── ...
│   │   └─ test_s3_bucket_web_hosting_disabled.py
└── <third party service B>
    ├── __init__.py
    ├── helpers.py
    ├── resources.py
    └── test_user_has_escalation_policy.py
```

### Adding an example test

Let's write a test to check that http://httpbin.org/ip returns an AWS IP:

1. create a file `httpbin/test_httpbin_ip.py` with the contents:

```python
import itertools
import ipaddress
import pytest
import json
import urllib.request


def get_httpbin_ips():
    # IPs we always want to test
    ips = [
        '127.0.0.1',
        '13.58.0.0',
    ]

    req = urllib.request.Request('http://httpbin.org/ip')

    with urllib.request.urlopen(req) as response:
        body = response.read().decode('utf-8')
        ips.append(json.loads(body).get('origin', None))

    return ips


def get_aws_ips():
    req = urllib.request.Request('https://ip-ranges.amazonaws.com/ip-ranges.json')

    with urllib.request.urlopen(req) as response:
        body = response.read().decode('utf-8')
        return json.loads(body)['prefixes']


@pytest.mark.httpbin
@pytest.mark.aws_ip_ranges
@pytest.mark.parametrize(
    ['ip', 'aws_ip_ranges'],
    zip(get_httpbin_ips(), itertools.repeat(get_aws_ips())))
def test_httpbin_ip_in_aws(ip, aws_ip_ranges):
    for aws_ip_range in aws_ip_ranges:
        assert ipaddress.IPv4Address(ip) not in ipaddress.ip_network(aws_ip_range['ip_prefix']), \
          "{0} is in AWS range {1[ip_prefix]} region {1[region]} service {1[service]}".format(ip, aws_ip_range)
```

Notes:

* we add two data fetching functions that return lists that we can zip into tuples for [the pytest parametrize decorator](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/parametrize.html#pytest-mark-parametrize-parametrizing-test-functions)
* we add markers for the services we're fetching data from


1. Running it we see that one of the IPs is an AWS IP:

```console
pytest --ignore aws/
platform darwin -- Python 3.6.2, pytest-3.3.2, py-1.5.2, pluggy-0.6.0
metadata: {'Python': '3.6.2', 'Platform': 'Darwin-15.6.0-x86_64-i386-64bit', 'Packages': {'pytest': '3.3.2', 'py': '1.5.2', 'pluggy': '0.6.0'}, 'Plugins': {'metadata': '1.5.1', 'json': '0.4.0', 'html': '1.16.1'}}
rootdir: /Users/gguthe/mozilla-services/pytest-services, inifile:
plugins: metadata-1.5.1, json-0.4.0, html-1.16.1
collected 3 items

httpbin/test_httpbin_ip_in_aws.py .F.                                                                                               [100%]

================================================================ FAILURES =================================================================
____________________________________________ test_httpbin_ip_in_aws[13.58.0.0-aws_ip_ranges1] _____________________________________________

ip = '13.58.0.0'
aws_ip_ranges = [{'ip_prefix': '13.32.0.0/15', 'region': 'GLOBAL', 'service': 'AMAZON'}, {'ip_prefix': '13.35.0.0/16', 'region': 'GLOB...on': 'us-west-1', 'service': 'AMAZON'}, {'ip_prefix': '13.57.0.0/16', 'region': 'us-west-1', 'service': 'AMAZON'}, ...]

    @pytest.mark.httpbin
    @pytest.mark.aws_ip_ranges
    @pytest.mark.parametrize(
        ['ip', 'aws_ip_ranges'],
        zip(get_httpbin_ips(), itertools.repeat(get_aws_ips())),
        # ids=lambda ip: ip
        )
    def test_httpbin_ip_in_aws(ip, aws_ip_ranges):
        for aws_ip_range in aws_ip_ranges:
>           assert ipaddress.IPv4Address(ip) not in ipaddress.ip_network(aws_ip_range['ip_prefix']), \
              "{0} is in AWS range {1[ip_prefix]} region {1[region]} service {1[service]}".format(ip, aws_ip_range)
E           AssertionError: 13.58.0.0 is in AWS range 13.58.0.0/15 region us-east-2 service AMAZON
E           assert IPv4Address('13.58.0.0') not in IPv4Network('13.58.0.0/15')
E            +  where IPv4Address('13.58.0.0') = <class 'ipaddress.IPv4Address'>('13.58.0.0')
E            +    where <class 'ipaddress.IPv4Address'> = ipaddress.IPv4Address
E            +  and   IPv4Network('13.58.0.0/15') = <function ip_network at 0x107cf66a8>('13.58.0.0/15')
E            +    where <function ip_network at 0x107cf66a8> = ipaddress.ip_network

httpbin/test_httpbin_ip_in_aws.py:43: AssertionError
=================================================== 1 failed, 2 passed in 15.69 seconds ===================================================
```

Note: marking tests as expected failures with `@pytest.mark.xfail` can hide data fetching errors

To improve this we could:

1. Add parametrize ids so it's clearer which parametrize caused test failures
1. Add directions about why it's an issue and how to fix it or what the associated risks are

As we add more tests we can:

1. Move the JSON fetching functions to `<service name>/resources.py` files and import them into the test
1. Move the fetching logic to a shared library `<service name>/client.py` and save to the pytest cache
